<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>
<title>Later</title>
<link href="../Styles/style0001.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head><body>
<h2 class="chapnum"><b><i>3</i></b></h2>
<p class="noindent">The Burketts&#x2019; apartment was smaller than ours, but nice. After dinner, while we were having our fortune cookies (mine said <i>A feather in the hand is better than a bird in the air</i>, which makes no sense at all), Mom said, &#x201C;Have you checked the closets, Marty? For her rings, I mean?&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent"><a id="page_28"></a>&#x201C;Why would she put her rings in a closet?&#x201D; A sensible enough question.</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;Well, if she was having a stroke, she might not have been thinking too clearly.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">We were eating at the little round table in the kitchen nook. Mrs. Burkett was sitting on one of the stools at the counter and nodded vigorously when Mom said that.</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;Maybe I&#x2019;ll check,&#x201D; Mr. Burkett said. He sounded pretty vague. &#x201C;Right now I&#x2019;m too tired and upset.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;You check the bedroom closet when you get around to it,&#x201D; Mom said. &#x201C;I&#x2019;ll check the one in the hall right now. A little stretching will do me good after all that sweet and sour pork.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">Mrs. Burkett said, &#x201C;Did she think that up all by herself? I didn&#x2019;t know she was that smart.&#x201D; Already she was getting hard to hear. After awhile I wouldn&#x2019;t be able to hear her at all, just see her mouth moving, like she was behind a thick pane of glass. Pretty soon after that she&#x2019;d be gone.</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;My mom&#x2019;s plenty smart,&#x201D; I said.</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;Never said she wasn&#x2019;t,&#x201D; Mr. Burkett said, &#x201C;but if she finds those rings in the front hall closet, I&#x2019;ll eat my hat.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">Just then my mother said &#x201C;Bingo!&#x201D; and came in with the rings on the palm of one outstretched hand. The wedding ring was pretty ordinary, but the engagement ring was as big as an eyeball. A real sparkler.</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;Oh my God!&#x201D; Mr. Burkett cried. &#x201C;How in God&#x2019;s name&#x2026;?&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;I prayed to St. Anthony,&#x201D; Mom said, but cast a quick glance my way. And a smile. &#x201C;&#x2018;Tony, Tony, come around! Something&#x2019;s lost that must be found!&#x2019; And as you see, it worked.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent"><a id="page_29"></a>I thought about asking Mr. Burkett if he wanted salt and pepper on his hat, but didn&#x2019;t. It wasn&#x2019;t the right time to be funny, and besides, it&#x2019;s like my mother always says&#x2014;nobody loves a smartass.</p>
</body></html>