<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>
<title>Later</title>
<link href="../Styles/style0001.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head><body>
<h2 class="chapnum"><b><i>2</i></b></h2>
<p class="noindent">So yeah, I see dead people. As far as I can remember, I always have. But it&#x2019;s not like in that movie with Bruce Willis. It can be interesting, it can be scary sometimes (the Central Park dude), it can be a pain in the ass, but mostly it just <i>is</i>. Like being left-handed, or being able to play classical music when you&#x2019;re like three years old, or getting early-onset Alzheimer&#x2019;s, which is what happened to Uncle Harry when he was only forty-two. At age six, forty-two seemed old to me, but even then I understood it&#x2019;s young to wind up not knowing who you are. Or what the names of things are&#x2014;for some reason that&#x2019;s what always scared me the most when we went to see Uncle Harry. His thoughts didn&#x2019;t drown in blood from a busted brain vessel, but they drowned, just the same.</p>
<p class="indent">Mom and me trucked on down to 3C, and Mom let us in. Which took some time, because there are three locks on the door. She said that&#x2019;s the price you pay for living in style. We had a six-room apartment with a view of the avenue. Mom called it the Palace on Park. We had a cleaning woman who came in twice a week. Mom had a Range Rover in the <a id="page_25"></a>parking garage on Second Avenue, and sometimes we went up to Uncle Harry&#x2019;s place in Speonk. Thanks to Regis Thomas and a few other writers (but mostly good old Regis), we were living high on the hog. It didn&#x2019;t last, a depressing development I will discuss all too soon. Looking back on it, I sometimes think my life was like a Dickens novel, only with swearing.</p>
<p class="indent">Mom tossed her manuscript bag and purse on the sofa and sat down. The sofa made a farting noise that usually made us laugh, but not that day. &#x201C;Jesus-fuck,&#x201D; Mom said, then raised a hand in a stop gesture. &#x201C;You&#x2014;&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;I didn&#x2019;t hear it, nope,&#x201D; I said.</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;Good. I need to have an electric shock collar or something that buzzes every time I swear around you. That&#x2019;d teach me.&#x201D; She stuck out her lower lip and blew back her bangs. &#x201C;I&#x2019;ve got another two hundred pages of Regis&#x2019;s latest to read&#x2014;&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;What&#x2019;s this one called?&#x201D; I asked, knowing the title would have <i>of Roanoke</i> in it. They always did.</p>
<p class="indent"><i>&#x201C;Ghost Maiden of Roanoke</i>,&#x201D; she said. &#x201C;It&#x2019;s one of his better ones, lots of se&#x2026;lots of kissing and hugging.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">I wrinkled my nose.</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;Sorry, kiddo, but the ladies love those pounding hearts and torrid thighs.&#x201D; She looked at the bag with <i>Ghost Maiden of Roanoke</i> inside, secured with the usual six or eight rubber bands, one of which always snapped and made Mom give out some of her best swears. Many of which I still use. &#x201C;Now I feel like I don&#x2019;t want to do anything but have a glass of wine. Maybe the whole bottle. Mona Burkett was a prize pain the ass, he might actually be better off without her, but right <a id="page_26"></a>now he&#x2019;s gutted. I hope to God he&#x2019;s got relatives, because I don&#x2019;t relish the idea of being Comforter in Chief.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;She loved him, too,&#x201D; I said.</p>
<p class="indent">Mom gave me a strange look. &#x201C;Yeah? You think?&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;I know. She said something mean about my turkey, but then she cried and kissed him on the cheek.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;You imagined that, James,&#x201D; she said, but half-heartedly. She knew better by then, I&#x2019;m sure she did, but grownups have a tough time believing, and I&#x2019;ll tell you why. When they find out as kids that Santa Claus is a fake and Goldilocks isn&#x2019;t a real girl and the Easter Bunny is bullshit&#x2014;just three examples, I could give more&#x2014;it makes a complex and they stop believing anything they can&#x2019;t see for themselves.</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;Nope, didn&#x2019;t imagine it. She said I&#x2019;d never be Rembrandt. Who is that?&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;An artist,&#x201D; she said, and blew her bangs back again. I don&#x2019;t know why she didn&#x2019;t just cut them or wear her hair a different way. Which she could, because she was really pretty.</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;When we go down there to eat, don&#x2019;t you dare say anything to Mr. Burkett about what you think you saw.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;I won&#x2019;t,&#x201D; I said, &#x201C;but she was right. My turkey sucks.&#x201D; I felt bad about that.</p>
<p class="indent">I guess it showed, because she held out her arms. &#x201C;Come here, kiddo.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">I came and hugged her.</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;Your turkey is beautiful. It&#x2019;s the most beautiful turkey I ever saw. I&#x2019;m going to put it up on the refrigerator and it will stay there forever.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent"><a id="page_27"></a>I hugged as tight as I could and put my face in the hollow of her shoulder so I could smell her perfume. &#x201C;I love you, Mom.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;I love you too, Jamie, a million bunches. Now go play or watch TV. I need to roll some calls before ordering the Chinese.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;Okay.&#x201D; I started for my room, then stopped. &#x201C;She put her rings on the top shelf of the hall closet, behind some scrap-books.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">My mother stared at me with her mouth open. &#x201C;Why would she do that?&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;I asked her and she said she didn&#x2019;t know. She said by then her thoughts were drownding in blood.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;Oh my God,&#x201D; Mom whispered, and put her hand to her neck.</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;You should figure out a way to tell him when we have the Chinese. Then he won&#x2019;t worry about it. Can I have General Tso&#x2019;s?&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;Yes,&#x201D; she said. &#x201C;And brown rice, not white.&#x201D;</p>
<p class="indent">&#x201C;Right right right,&#x201D; I said, and went to play with my Legos. I was making a robot.</p>
</body></html>